h1. Disqussion - A library for using the Disqus web API.

* "http://wiki.github.com/blowmage/disqussion/":http://wiki.github.com/blowmage/disqussion/
* "mike@blowmage.com":mailto:mike@blowmage.com

Copyright:: (C) 2010 "Mike Moore":mailto:mike@blowmage.com
License:: Distributes under the same terms as Ruby

h2. Description

Disqussion is a library for using the "Disqus API":http://wiki.disqus.net/API.

h2. Install

<pre><code>[sudo] gem install disqussion</code></pre>

or

<pre><code>[sudo] gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
[sudo] gem install blowmage-disqussion</code></pre>

or

<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/blowmage/disqussion.git
cd disqussion
gem build disqussion.gemspec
[sudo] gem install disqussion-0.2.0.gem</code></pre>

h2. Feeling your way around Disqussion

Disqussion uses the Disqus terminology of Forums, Threads, and Posts.
For the most typical use a Forum is your blog, a Thread is a blog entry, and a post is a comment.

h2. Examples

h3. Create Disqus Session

You need a Disqus account and your Disqus API key to use the Disqussion library.
You can retrieve your Disqus API key here: http://disqus.com/api/get_my_key/

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

disqus = Disqussion.new 'YWxlaWRzdXRoMzhlbzdydGJna3VhZGpidGdvYThlcnk3YnRvZXVyeWIgb2FlndTh'</code></pre>

Or, you can put your Disqus key in ~./disqus_key and Disqussion will find and use it for you automagically.
The only text in the ~./disqus_key file should be your api key.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

disqus = Disqussion.new</code></pre>

Disqussion#new actually retrieves a Disqussion::Session object.
You can call Disqussion::Session#new directly if you like, but Disqussion#new is there to save you from typing more than you need. :)

h3. Finding your Forums

Disqussion lazilly retrieves all the Forums you are allowed to access and keeps them in Session#forums.
Session#forums is an array of Disqus::Forum objects.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

puts "My Disqus Sites:"
Disqussion.new.forums.each do |forum|
  puts "  forum: #{forum.id} (#{forum.shortname}) - #{forum.name}"
end</code></pre>

If you want to find a specific Forum you can use the Session#[] helper passing in either the forum ID or the shortname.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

disqus     = Disqussion.new
rubiverse  = disqus['123456']
blowmage   = disqus['blowmage']</code></pre>

h3. Finding your Threads

Disqussion lazilly retrieves all the Threads on your Forum.
Forum#threads is an array of Disqus::Thread objects.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

puts "My Blog Entries:"
Disqussion.new['blowmage'].threads.each do |thread|
  puts "  thread: #{thread.id} (#{thread.slug}) - #{thread.title}"
end</code></pre>

If you want to find a specific Thread you can use the Forum#[] helper passing in either the thread ID or the slug.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

disqus       = Disqussion.new
blowmage     = disqus['blowmage']
random_page  = blowmage['345678']
another_page = blowmage['announcing-disqussion']</code></pre>

h3. Finding your Posts

Disqussion lazilly retrieves all the Posts on your Thread.
Thread#posts is an array of Disqus::Post objects.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

puts "My Blog Entry Comments:"
Disqussion.new['blowmage']['announcing-disqussion'].posts.each do |post|
  puts "  post: #{post.id} (#{post.created_at}) - #{post.author.name}"
  puts "  #{post.message}\n"
end</code></pre>

If you want to find a specific Post you can  the Thread#[] helper passing in post ID.

<pre><code>require 'disqussion'

disqus   = Disqussion.new
blowmage = disqus['blowmage']
page     = blowmage['announcing-disqussion']
comment  = page.posts['567890']</code></pre>

h2. Calling the Disqus Web API Directly

You can call the Disqus web API directly using Disqussion::API instead of using the Disqussion Forum, Thread, Post, and Author objects.
You can find more information on the class documentation here.